[ Music ]
>> Hi! I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations.
My guest today says that
our bodies are designed
to be healthy, slender,
and energetic
and that we're intended to
have smooth, supple skin
and an alert, quick mind, but
instead, many are overweight
and tired and sluggish.
Why? Well my guest today
is a microbiologist
and a research scientist, Dr.
Robert Young, and he specializes
in what he calls the new
biology and simply stated,
it is designed to return our
body to its natural state
of health through alkalinity.
Welcome to the show.
Thanks for being here.
>> Oh it's wonderful
to be on your show.
Thank your for inviting me.
>> It's great to have you.
You have such pertinent
information and it's simple.
I mean, it's very simple,
but tell us a little bit
about the New Biology.
What does that mean?
>> Well, very simply the New
Biology is a new way of living,
a new way of thinking,
a new way of eating.
It's based on two premises.
The first premise is
that our body's naturally
in its perfect health is
alkaline in its design.
The second point is that all
functions of the human body,
from the beating of your
heart to the contraction
of your muscle, produce
acidic waste products,
if not properly eliminated
will build
up in the connective tissue and
will cause sickness and disease.
And so these are
the two premises.
The best way to understand
this is a metaphor.
The metaphor is if the fish
is sick, what would you do?
Would you treat the fish or
would you change the water?
>> Usually change the water.
>> Absolutely.
>> Right so...
>> In fact, the fish
is only as healthy
as the water it swims in.
And so today we're
focused in medicine,
we're focused on the fish.
Where in reality the fish or
the body cell, the human cell,
even the blood is
only as healthy
as the water it's swimming in.
Realizing that our bodies
are alkaline in its design
and that our bodies
are 70 to 80%
and when we're born 90% water,
so we're a body of water.
>> When we're born, is our
body naturally alkaline?
>> Absolutely.
In fact, when we're healthy,
we're naturally alkaline
and the body has systems to help
to maintain that alkalinity.
And...
>> Detoxification systems?
>> Well not just detoxification.
It has an alkaline
buffering system.
In fact, the major
organ that helps
to manage the alkaline design
of the fluids of the body,
the delicate pH balance
of 7.365 to 7.4.
Now many of you may
not know that number,
but the pH scale is a scale
that goes from 0 to 14,
seven being the midpoint.
>> Oh.
>> And we're slightly
alkaline at 7.365.
Our ocean waters
are alkaline at 8.4.
You can imagine and what is
happening is the pH is coming
down from acid rain that we're
losing a lot of our marine life.
And so sickness and
disease is increasing
because we're not taking care
of our internal environments
and managing the delicate
pH balance of our bodies
because of what we're
eating, what we're drinking,
and how we're dealing
with our emotions.
>> So it's a very fine range
that the body is either
in a state of health or
in a state of sickness.
How would you know if
your body is too acidic?
Tell us on the beginning
of that range.
I mean, obviously in the --
the extreme side of that
range you see cancer
and heart disease,
but what's the mild?
>> Hmm-mm.
That's the extreme one.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, the first stage of
acidosis or the body holding
onto its own waste products,
because they're not
being eliminated properly
through the four
channels of elimination.
That's urination, perspiration
and defecation and respiration.
Our body needs to get rid
of these waste products,
much like a car has to get
rid of its carbon monoxide.
The old potato in
the exhaust pipe.
If the body -- if
the car can't get rid
of its exhaust, the
engine stops.
And that's what happens to
us within our own bodies.
And so the first stage of
acidosis is we're tired.
We don't have enough energy.
The second stage is irritation.
I hurt here, I hurt there.
These are allergies
or sinus problems.
Stage three is mucous buildup.
The body will secrete alkaline
buffers to initialize acid
and that's what creates mucus.
That's stage three acidosis.
Stage four is inflammation.
So any inflammatory condition
is a result of retained acid
that hasn't been
properly eliminated.
Stage five is induration.
That's the solidification
of acids, like in the case
of arteriosclerotic plaque
that builds up on the walls
of the arteries that leads
to heart attack and stroke.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> Stage six is ulceration.
And finally, stage
seven is degeneration,
which is all the conditions,
the chronic conditions
of degeneration from
multiple sclerosis to dementia
to cancer to diabetes.
Things that are degenerative
in nature.
Those are the seven
stages that I talk about.
>> And they happen --
what I wrapped my mind around
recently is they happen
in a very small percentage.
It goes from 7.1, then 7.2,
and then 6.9 is the
ulceration stage, right?
>> Well -- well when -- we
actually go in a coma at 6.9.
>> Wow.
>> So the -- the range
is very, very normal.
The -- the healthy state of
the human body when our --
our pH is balanced --
and we know what happens
when the pH is not balanced
in the swimming pool.
In fact...
>> Right.
>> ...we look at shampoos.
You probably heard for the first
time pH on a label of a shampoo.
It has to be pH balanced.
That's true.
When water starts declining in
its pH, this is where bacteria,
yeast, and molds and
algae start showing up.
>> I see.
>> And so what happens, this
narrow range at 7.365 to 7.4,
as the range either
increases or decreases,
this is when we feel
out of balance.
This is when we start feeling
innervated or tired or fatigued.
>> 7.4.
>> Anything in excess of 7.4
or anything less than 7.3.
So the range is just point
one-tenth, okay, of one point.
>> Wow.
>> If it drops .2 of one point,
you start feeling, you know,
terrible to where if
it continues to drop,
you're off to the
hospital getting an IV
of sodium bicarbonate
or alkaline salts
to restore what is -- what is --
medical science refers to
as decompensated acidosis.
>> Well, my goodness.
Okay. So that's --
if you want to see --
now you do a lot of
live blood analysis.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And we have a
slide here or a video
that shows a certain
patient that you looked
at whose blood is
extremely toxic.
Let's take a look at this.
>> Okay. Great.
Yes, so we're looking
at live blood.
These are the red blood
cells, the erythrocytes.
They're fermenting, much
like a banana would
ferment, getting its spots.
These red blood cells
have white spots.
These white spots are
indication of fermentation.
The cells are breaking down into
sugar and associated very much
with diabetic-type
symptomatologies.
Individual folks that
have high blood sugars
or even low blood sugars
will show these types
of cells in blood.
So we see these actual
fermentations taking place
on the red blood cells,
much like when bananas get
their spots, bananas melting.
Diabetes mellitus means
to melt into sugar.
This is what happens to cells,
which gives rise to an increase
in blood sugars in the --
or glucose in the plasma.
Here we see a white
blood cell, a neutrophil.
It's moving.
It's [inaudible].
You can actually see
the movement of that.
White blood cells, particularly
neutrophils, are significant
because they're the garbage
collectors or the pool sweepers
of the internal environment.
They provide cleanliness.
So they move through
the blood plasma picking
up food particles,
bacterias, yeast to,
excuse me, to purify the blood.
>> So what is biological
transformation?
You mean in -- on the
slide, right there?
>> Well on the slide it's --
it's the change of a cell,
much like water when it changes
to a solid, going from --
from a liquid to
ice or it vaporizes.
It's -- it's a change not in
necessarily the molecules,
but it's a change in its
function and its form.
Basic physics teaches us
that matter cannot be created
nor can it be destroyed.
It can only change
its form or function.
So we understand
that red blood cells
or even body cells can
change in their form
with this new discovery
that bacteria is coming
out of the cell, rather than
the infection, which is the --
the basic germ theory.
That germs from the
outside are infecting us.
>> Right.
>> When in reality
what's happening is
when we compromise the
internal environment
through acidic lifestyles
and diets,
then we change that environment.
Then the cell begins
to -- to morph.
Goes through a metamorphis.
It begins to change and it
gives birth to bacteria.
And that was in 1994,
in a type 1 diabetic,
the first time I'd
ever witnessed
or videotaped biological
transformation or one cell,
which was a red blood cell,
changing into a bacterial cell.
>> Oh, I see.
So you do live blood analysis
and also dried blood
analysis, right?
>> Hmm-mm.
>> What we just saw there was
extraction of blood, pinprick,
put onto a slide, looked
at from a microscope,
and you were videotaping that?
>> Right. It's the
live blood unchanged.
Meaning we're looking
at it as if we were --
we're looking at it as if we
were looking right into the --
the capillary or into
the blood vessel.
We want to see that
unchanged blood and see --
seeing it in its natural state.
And healthy blood is round and
symmetrical, even in color,
even in shape, even in size.
And that wasn't the case.
Here we had these blood cells
that were morphing into bacteria
and later morphing into yeast .
>> So what we have is we have
a slide of the difference
of what looks -- what live blood
looks like in a healthy state.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And in an unhealthy state.
Can you explain what
we're looking at here?
>> Yeah. The -- the picture
on the left, you'll notice
that the cells, both the top
and the bottom picture are even
in color, even in
shape, even in size.
You'll notice the plasma,
which is the environment
which the cells are residing
in, is clean and pure,
which is the natural
state of a healthy person.
You're not going to see
a lot of cellular debris.
The pictures on the right
actually show solidification
or acid crystals or
stones, much like --
like breast stones or brain
stones or gallstones...
>> Kidney stones.
>> ...or kidney stones.
>> Uh-huh.
>> These are blood stones.
These -- this is
the solidification
of acidic waste products
from metabolism
that have been solidified.
The one on the bottom
right is actually a crystal
of someone who is smoking.
So the body will take that
toxin, if it can't get rid
of it, will solidify it.
So these pictures are
showing one's lifestyle
and dietary choices.
And so when I look
at these people, I --
their individual blood, I can
tell if they're eating pork
or beef or chicken or
whether they're eating --
or if they're a smoker.
Whether they're -- they
have a diet high in sugar.
The blood expresses
specific forms,
based upon how one is
living and how one's eating.
Even how one's thinking too.
>> [Laughter] I was just
going to ask you that.
So there's so many different
stressors that the --
that show up in the blood.
[Laughter] You can
literally see it in the blood.
>> Absolutely.
>> It's really, really
important to know this
because we are what we eat
and we are what we think
and this is a perfect
example of that.
This -- this next slide is
showing stress in the blood.
So this is along the
lines of what you think.
Let's take a look at this one.
>> Okay.
>> So this is oxidative
stress and this is...
>> Yeah, exactly.
On the left is -- is how blood
should normally coagulate.
The black lines, there's
a protein called fibrin
that holds the red
blood cells together.
>> Okay.
>> So we're seeing
thousands of cells in a clot.
It's what is called
hypercoagulated.
On the right side, we're
actually seeing hypocoagulation
or white areas or spaces
where we have missing red
blood cell conglomerate.
This is an indication of someone
who is living a lifestyle
that's highly acidic,
that's under stress,
physical or emotional stress.
In fact, the one that's
showing at the top right
where you see a lot
of round areas...
>> The whitish...
>> ...the whitish areas, there's
like a cluster of
those white areas.
The white areas are
pulmerized proteins.
These proteins are
actually the breakdown
of cells specifically
in the location.
Here it's in the
core or the gut.
So this is a pattern
for colon cancer.
So the -- the blood,
just like a snowflake,
will give us a certain
impression or a pattern,
which then indicates
specific health conditions
in direct relationship
to what one's eating,
what one's drinking,
and what one's thinking.
>> Thinking essentially.
>> Yeah.
>> So you could actually
tell the --
a precancerous condition
from the blood?
>> Absolutely.
We can see a single cancer cell
or we can see a multiplicity
of cancer cells in
those breakdowns.
And we can actually see
the acids that have --
that are expressed, which
are called sialic acid beads
that show up in -- in the dried
blood, but it's a precursor.
It's noninvasive.
It's, in fact, the
only test that I know
of that will give you a look
at how your lifestyle is
impacting the most important
organ of the body and
that's the human blood,
so that you can prevent
a cancerous condition.
So you can prevent a
diabetic condition.
>> So you can see these
conditions quite often before a
heart screening could see
heart disease or -- or --
or even a mammogram could
see breast cancer, right?
>> Now, for example,
in a mammogram,
you have to have 256,000,000
cancer cells before the cancer
will actually show
up in the breast.
In this case, when we're
looking at live and dry blood,
we can see a -- a
single cancerous cell
or in a multiplicity
where there's a precancerous
condition, 256 cancer cells.
So we can screen this...
>> Oh, 1% of the cancer.
Wow.
>> ...we can screen
this in order
to prevent a cancerous
condition, with no radiation,
which I think is
really wonderful.
>> A lot less invasive.
All right.
So this next slide
we're looking at is --
is in a dried blood example.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And so...
>> Another dried
blood of oxidated...
>> Stress.
>> ...stress, where the body is
in a deprived oxygenated state,
where it goes from
respiration to fermentation.
More acids are being produced
and these are just the patterns.
The one -- pictures on the
left is how blood should
normally coagulate.
The pictures on the right
are those pictures associated
with irritable bowel
syndrome leading
up to a cancerous condition.
>> So you can see these small --
when you start to see these
types of things in the blood,
then you can -- what level is
this in terms of the range?
>> Well in the bottom
right picture there
where you're seeing large
polymerized protein pools,
these white pasty masses.
That's an inflammatory
condition,
which is precancerous.
And -- and we see this pattern
in precancer, but we see it
in every cancerous
condition that's related
to the lower abdominal area, so
the bowels and the pelvic area,
which includes the
reproductive organs.
These patterns show
up every time.
>> Wow! It shows up
in the blood before,
quite often before the
symptoms occur, before...
>> Well if you catch
it early enough.
A lot of the people that I see
have already been diagnosed
with an acute or
chronic condition,
but the patterns then show up
validating that their lifestyle
and diet is not conducive to,
enjoying health,
energy, and vitality.
>> So it would make
it grow essentially.
So when you -- you can
test your own blood
with just simple pH
strips that you get
at the -- at the market right?
Is that accurate enough?
>> Well, yeah the pH hydrion
strips, you can tear them off,
test the saliva or urine.
The saliva tests your ability to
alkalize your lifestyle habits,
your diet, what you're
eating, what you're drinking.
And the urine pH is
a direct indication
of how acidic your tissues are.
It's not a test of the
blood, but a test of...
>> Right [inaudible]...
>> ...the tissues.
>> Okay.
>> So and I...
>> It's a test of your pH,
not of your blood [laughter].
>> It's not a test -- it's not
a test of your pH of your blood,
it's a test of the pH of
the interstitial fluids,
which are the fluids that
surround all the body cells.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> So -- so if we --
if we see that pH --
urine pH below 7.2
and in traditional medicine what
is a range goes from like 5.5
on a scale of 0 to 14 up to
7.5, but the range is too wide.
We have a very narrow
range, 7.2 or greater
for ideal perfect health.
Anything less than that is
a risk factor for, you know,
acute or chronic illness.
>> So in this next slide
that we're going to see,
what would you say this
particular range looks like?
>> Well this -- this
patient that came
in had metastatic
or multiple myeloma.
Bone cancer.
>> Oh wow.
>> And it was throughout
his entire spine, hips,
but he also had three
tumors in the lung.
This is a pattern for cancer.
And when I saw that, of
course, the encouragement
to make changes in the lifestyle
and the diet and to be able
to document that, because he
had already done PET scans
and had been following
this with PET scans
to see the improvement
using an alkalizing approach
within 90 days, of
course, he reversed his --
his multiple myeloma,
which is just amazing.
>> You're kidding?
>> No I'm not.
>> Using the acid
alkaline balancing system?
>> Using this 15-step
protocol for --
for his particular condition.
>> Okay. So let's talk
about acid versus alkaline.
We've seen this and how
it shows up in the blood.
How do you start to
make that transition
from that minor percentage point
from acidity to alkalinity?
>> Well the blood
is going to maintain
that delicate pH
balance of 7.365 to 7.4
by compromising other
organs and organ systems.
So what happens is
when we're exercising,
it's not that the acids
from that exercising is
staying in the blood.
It pushes it out of the tissues.
That's why we feel pain
when we over exercise,
from an acid that we all know.
It's called lactic acid.
>> Lactic acid.
I see.
>> You see, but if we're
overeating protein,
there's an acid that
builds up in the body
if it is not properly eliminated
that causes specific
symptomatology.
It's called gout.
So every disease...
>> Oh.
>> ...that has a
name -- every --
every acute and chronic
condition...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...is a result of some
specific acid, for example,
prostate and breast
cancer result
of too much lactic acid building
up into the body tissues
that the body is
not eliminating.
When acids build up, they
break down cells and this is,
of course, the body then
going into a protection mode
to neutralize those acids
and encapsulate the cells
that have been spoiled,
which is the beginning
of the formation of a tumor.
>> So the body really needs to
be able to detoxify this acidity
if -- if it comes from
too much protein or --
or over working out, it
normally will start to --
to process it and to excrete
that type of tissue, right?
>> Absolutely.
Yeah, but if we're not drinking
enough of the right water...
>> The right water.
>> Yeah. If we're not...
>> We'll get into that.
>> ...yeah, if we're
not drinking enough
of the right alkaline
water, if our stomach is --
is having to deal with too
much acids from protein...
>> Inflammation.
>> ...or if there's too
much sugar in the diet,
which is an acid, then our
systems for elimination begin
to break down and so the urinary
tract system, the bowel system,
the skin starts clogging
up and --
and we're not sweating
when we're exercising
or we're not breathing
deep enough.
We're not removing that carbonic
acid or carbon dioxide out.
And when that builds up, this
is when we start getting sick.
>> All right.
So let's talk about how
to begin to restore that,
because you can get oxidative
stress from just walking outside
and breathing the air.
>> Well that environment is a
contributing factor to acidity.
It's one. Other is metabolism,
probably the major one is
what we eat and what we drink,
a major contributors to excess
acidity, which then leads
to sickness and disease.
And our break down of the
four elimination organs
that are responsible to keep our
bodies alkaline in it's design.
>> Okay. So this next slide
basically shows what our
body needs.
It's our body is slightly
alkaline by design...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...and what we need is --
is something that naturally
buffers the acidic states
of our body, right?
Okay.
>> And one of the most
important things is salt.
And the reason I say salt,
because salt is a
primary element
to make an alkaline buffer
that the body is
producing every second,
every moment of our lives.
It's called sodium bicarbonate.
And without salt, we
can't produce this very,
very important alkaline
buffer to neutralize the acids
that are produced
within our bodies.
>> So what kind of salt?
>> Well, I like whole salts.
Salts that haven't
been overly processed,
that haven't been deionized
or where they've extracted
all the other minerals
and just left a --
a sodium chloride,
but I like whole salts.
Sea salts.
>> Sea salts?
>> Hmm-mm.
>> The -- the whole
form of the sea salt,
like the big huge grain
sea salt or does it matter?
>> Well you have to
-- you have to --
grind those down and a good
salt will dissolve in water
and will stay in solution
without falling out.
Because if you want to
find out whether the salt
that you have is a good salt,
put it in a glass of water,
stir it up, and then come
back the next morning
and if the granules or the
salt particles are on --
on the bottom of the glass,
then you know this
is not a good salt.
>> What would that mean,
that the granules are coated
with something or it's just...
>> Well it might be.
It might, of course, depending
on what the company that's
manufacturing the salt is
putting in the salt, but you
want the salt in solution.
You know, the body can only
use it in a colloidal form.
>> And then what about the
salt without the iodine in it?
Has that normally
been processed?
>> All -- yeah, these --
these are salts that have been
processed and then iodine,
which I believe in
wholeheartedly
that we are deficient
in iodine...
>> Yes.
>> ...that we need iodine --
and potassium iodide and
potassium iodine are two forms
of iodine that we need to
support the alkaline design
of the body and extracting
that from the salt is not good,
which it's naturally
occurring in real salts.
>> I have to ask about people
with thyroid conditions...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...and Hashimoto's and so
forth and the iodine factor
because I always hear that
this is a big controversy.
What do you feel about that?
>> In -- in my realm, because
we're testing the thyroids,
and over 90% of the thyroids
we test using ultrasound,
we are finding cysts.
We're finding complex tumors.
We're finding stones
on the thyroid
and I believe it's a result
of Chernobyl, of Fukushima,
and radioactive iodine that's
been dumped into the ocean
that we're now -- that
we're now experiencing here,
but there's so many deficiencies
in the thyroid as a result
of a deficiency in alkalinity
and there's a very
important mineral salt iodine.
>> And that's not enough
to really light the
Hashimoto's on fire.
It's -- it's a minute amount
that comes in salt or kelp.
Is -- is that what
you're saying?
>> Well, yeah I'm saying
that, but it's also the fact
that we're overstressed by
too much acidity in our bodies
and the -- and the thyroid is --
it's main purpose is to manage
the energy levels of our body,
so it's becoming hyperactive
before it goes hypoactive.
Once -- I want everyone
to understand
that it's very important to
have their thyroids checked
out not using radiation,
but using ultrasound
because there is no radiation
in ultrasound and you can pick
up any imperfections that
may be in the thyroid
and then start taking
iodine as a supplement
to help protect you
against, you know, tumors.
>> What do antibodies look like
in a blood cell analysis --
an autoimmune disorder?
What would that look like?
>> Well antibodies, of
course, for those who know,
are created by the body in
order to neutralize antigens
or let's say toxins
that come into the body
that the body needs
to neutralize.
So an antibody is
basically an antioxidant.
It's an antacid.
And the white cells,
particularly the lymphocytes...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> Secrete chemicals to help
to reduce acidity in the form
of hydrogen peroxide to hydroxyl
radicals to neutralize acidity,
but an antibody also
is a protein that helps
to -- to neutralize acids.
And these are produced
as a protection to help
to maintain the alkaline
design of the body.
>> And if there are too
many of them, then it --
it's again like having
the hyperthyroidism?
>> Well if there's too many,
it means that your
body's highly acidic.
As you reduce acidity,
the antibodies come down.
We found this with HIV.
>> Wow!
>> Probably the only
scientist in the world
that successfully has reversed
HIV by reversing the symptom
of this antibody, HIV antibody,
not by treating the disease,
but by changing the
internal environment.
It comes back to the
fish bowl metaphor.
If the individual
person is sick,
you don't treat the disease,
you change the internal fluids,
which then affect the
cells of the body.
>> Okay. All right.
So let's go back to that.
There's a scale that we have
here in this slide of the --
the acidity, the neutrality,
and the alkaline system.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> Okay. This is
basically what it looks like
and if you were to get a...
>> Right.
>> ...pH stick at the
store you want to be right
in that small zone right there.
>> You want to be green.
You want to be in
the green-blue zone.
>> Okay.
>> And if you're dealing with a
-- a serious health challenge,
then, you know, the pH's
that we're running are running
anywhere from 9.5 up to 10.
So the urine and saliva
will actually go purple,
because we're forcing
hyperalkalinity
to reduce antibodies, to
reduce acidity, to reduce --
to support the white
blood cells, such as in --
in immune deficiency, we want
to support the white blood cells
by managing and maintaining
cleanliness
in the internal fluids
of the body.
>> Okay. Makes perfect sense.
All right.
Let's talk about how to do this.
You mentioned you want to
stay in the green zone.
And you are a big
proponent of green foods.
>> Yeah. I started the
green movement 30 years ago.
It's now becoming popular.
>> Thank God [laughter].
Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
In fact, we cannot
live without green.
In fact, all green plants, we
have a beautiful relationship.
They provide us oxygen for life
and we provide them
carbon dioxide for life.
They provide us chlorophyll,
which helps to build
our blood, you know.
And without green it's
very, very difficult
to -- to stay healthy.
And so that's a really
big part of my lifestyle
and diet is I always start out
with a quart of green juices
and I'll -- I'll drink
anywhere from four to six quarts
of green juice every day.
>> And I know that your wife
is an amazing green food chef
basically [laughter].
>> She is.
She -- she started --
she's the guru and --
and the founder of -- of the
green shake and the green milk.
>> Well she's got
some amazing recipes
on your website, which I saw.
There was a great one
with avocado, lime,
lemon juice, and celery.
That was a clean
drink [laughter].
>> It's very clean.
In fact, that's all
I've been drinking
since -- since this morning.
And when you're green,
you're clean.
>> Yes.
>> Okay?
>> And when you're green,
for those who are
overweight, you're lean.
So the more you green
up the diet,
the cleaner and leaner
you'll be.
>> And then someone who has been
drinking a lot of green juices,
do you get those plump-looking
blood cells in a --
in a blood cell analysis.
>> Your -- your blood changes.
It's called legalized
blood doping.
>> [Laughter].
>> And the way you
do that, in fact,
we measure the hematocrit
and hemoglobin.
We measure that center
molecule of the red blood cell.
My range is 17.6 with
a hematocrit of 52%.
For anyone who knows the blood,
this is an extraordinary
concentration of hemoglobin,
but it's essential, because the
hemoglobin is the oxygen carrier
that carries oxygen
from the lungs --
the lungs to every
cell in the human body.
And the volume of that
blood is significant.
And when you start
greening up your diet,
your blood counts come up.
>> You would be illegal
if you were a cyclist.
All right [laughter].
>> Well you -- in
fact, the IOC has --
has approved, they haven't
disapproved green drinking.
It's actually legalized
blood doping.
>> Fascinating.
All right.
So we're talking about 15
steps to alkalinizing the body.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And green juice
is one of them.
Avocado is one of
your favorites, right?
>> Probably the most important
food that you can eat,
the perfect food because of
its monounsaturated oils.
It's 15% protein.
It contains a higher source
of potassium than bananas
without all the sugar.
It is probably the perfect
food for an athlete.
The perfect food for
somebody who's dealing
with a serious health challenge.
>> Now are you a vegetarian?
>> I call myself an alkalarian.
>> Okay.
>> An alkalarian is a vegan
who's focused specifically
on green foods and green drinks.
>> Oh, so it's beyond
vegetarianism
and veganism [laughter].
>> Yeah. It's not only raw,
but it's raw alkalarian.
So all my food is --
is prepared naturally.
We either juice it or blend it
or I just eat it
naturally out of the ground.
And most of the foods that I
eat we grow right at our ranch
at the pH Miracle Center
in the Rancho del Sol.
So we have a forest
of avocados and --
and raw foods that we
partake of on a daily basis.
>> Oh wonderful.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> So in this slide it talks
about 15 steps to perfect health
and how to maintain
a perfect or a --
a good pH, which what did
you say pH stands for.
>> Well I affectionately
refer to pH
as meaning perfectly healthy.
Scientifically, it refers to
the potential of hydrogen.
We are actually measuring
concentrations in the body
or in the food to
determine its acid load.
Hydrogen is just
another word for proton
and the higher the concentration
of hydrogen, the more acidic
that food is or the more
acidic your body is.
So you want it more alkaline.
>> Okay. So then let's
talk about ways to do that.
So we talked about food.
We talked about green foods.
Exercise. This here is a
picture of your daughter?
>> Yeah, that's my
daughter, Ashley,
and she's just a beautiful
soul inside and out.
She's -- you know, she's the
mother of three children.
>> Wow!
>> Yes, I am -- I'm
a grandparent.
>> Nice [laughter].
>> For those who are
wondering how old I am, I'm 62.
And my wife who, you know, is
just in perfect health too,
in fact, she has a perfect
six pack, she's 60 this year.
>> Oh my goodness!
>> And, you know, she
takes care of her health.
We run every day.
We do Younga Yoga, which is a --
a version of rebounding
to hip-hop music and...
>> Oh!
>> ...doing yoga exercising.
So it's a lot...
>> So you do a lot.
>> ...of fun.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> My daughter here is doing
a yoga move, but she --
she was diagnosed
11 years ago with --
with brain cancer and it
was while she was pregnant
in her third trimester and,
you know, there was a couple
of times where we thought
we were going to lose her.
>> Wow!
>> But the baby was healthy at
birth and -- and just last --
this last few months after
11 years she was declared
cancer free.
And so she's been on
this program, you know,
to prevent her condition
getting worse and to be able
to live a normal life.
And drug free.
No chemotherapy.
No radiation and no surgery.
>> Had she been on -- did
you raise her on green food.
>> Absolutely, yeah.
>> And how did she get to that
state of the brain cancer?
>> It was an injury.
When you have a physical
injury --
she was a gymnast and
landed on her head.
And when you have trauma,
that can damage cells,
which then can become cancerous
and form a tumor and this,
of course, formed in her brain.
And we didn't realize that until
she seizured and then we...
>> In her third trimester.
>> ...we did a PET scan and we
saw the tumor, but -- it's --
everything is great now and --
and it's all because of
this lifestyle and diet.
And she was told that she
would never have children again
after this -- this
-- this first birth,
but she's had two more children
and she wants to have another.
>> Oh. She's healthy.
>> Yeah.
>> Now did you, when you
discovered this diagnosis,
did you do anything
different with her in --
in order to shrink this tumor?
>> Well, yes.
Here again, in shrinking
tumors you have
to change the environment,
because the tumor
is the solution
to cancer cells spreading.
So it encapsulates those cells
which have spoiled by metabolic
or dietary acid or
some physical trauma.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> It encapsules that, so it
doesn't -- it's a domino effect.
So one cell doesn't
spoil another cell.
Let me give you a metaphor.
That's the best way
to understand this.
If you take a rotten apple
and put it in a bushel
of healthy apples, what happens
to the rest -- rest
of the apples?
>> The fungus grows -- it's...
>> Well the acids
from that one apple --
apple will spoil another apple.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And so the body
has a very unique way
of encapsulating things to
prevent that spoiling effect.
You see people don't realize
this or maybe they do,
that we don't get old, we mold.
It's a fermentation process
and to slow the aging
process down...
>> Oh.
>> ...you have to manage the
internal fluids of the body.
And that's how we handled
this particular condition.
Rather than opening up her skull
and disturbing the environment,
we saturated the tissues
with alkalinity, which is one
of the four things that I do.
There's four of them.
The first one is hyperprofuse
the tissues with alkalinity.
The second is open up the
channels of elimination.
The third one is to build
the blood, you know,
and to restore health
to the core.
To the root system of our body,
which is the intestinal villi.
When we -- when we
focus from the core out,
this is when we can regain
or reclaim our health.
>> Wow! That's a great system.
And it makes sense.
So let's talk about the energy
that is inside food in order
to have those types
of healing properties.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And we have a slide here that
talks about the energy of food.
Explain what this is.
>> Well, a Russian scientist
by the name of Kirlian was --
was taking photographs of --
using his technique of a life
force energy that's coming off
the food.
I believe that we eat food
not for its caloric value,
but for its electrical value.
We are electrical beings.
Our bodies run on electrons.
And so when we see live
or we eat live foods,
we're putting more electrical
energy into our bodies.
It's kind of like batteries.
We don't buy the acid batteries.
We buy the alkaline batteries.
They're electron rich.
We have to recharge our
bodies with live, green,
electron-rich foods and that's
what these pictures are showing.
The picture on --
in the middle --
actually the picture on the left
is showing the life force energy
coming from a hamburger.
The middle one is
a lentil sprout.
These are live, electrically
active.
And, of course, in the --
the right side there is --
is taking the picture from
the bottle that's open --
we're taking a picture of our
-- our concentrated green powder
that you put into the water
to make the green juice.
>> Do you think that the powder
versus live juicing
is any different?
I mean is the powder
more convenient and it's
when you can get to the
live juicing always do that?
>> The benefits of the powder
is -- is number one, it's --
it's convenient, but number
two it's a concentrate.
So what -- we take out all the
water and we create a 28 to 30
to one concentration of
wheat grass, barley grass,
kamut grass, straw grass
-- [inaudible] grass,
with broccoli, spinach,
celery, cucumber,
avocado in a concentrated
form, so when you take
like six scoops you're
literally increasing the amount
of vegetables and fruit --
alkaline fruits that
you're eating.
So it's a more concentrated
and we...
>> I see.
>> ...get a faster
response from the powder
than we do the --
from the fresh juice.
>> From someone who has
a gluten intolerance
and a wheat sensitivity,
is the barley grass --
does that affect that
type of sensitivity?
>> No because we're -- we're
not -- we're sprouting it.
We're taking it from a
grain to a -- a vegetable.
So there is no gluten.
>> Oh. It doesn't exist
within the hull of the...
>> No because that all
comes out in the sprout.
>> In the sprouting process?
>> In the sprouting process you
-- you -- there is no gluten.
>> Thanks for explaining
that today [laughter].
>> That's -- you're
welcome [laughter].
>> [Laughter] I never knew that.
All right, so now -- I noticed
that Bill Clinton
was on your website.
Did you help him heal in his...
>> You know he's been
on the alkaline program
for several years and the
reason why he got on it
and started moving more to
a plant-based vegan diet is
because of the challenges
he had with his heart.
>> Right.
>> And the surgeries he had.
And so now he manages
his pH as well.
>> And does he eat all these
foods, these beautiful foods
that we have here on
this [inaudible] here?
>> Absolutely.
>> So name some of the foods
that you eat -- that
you recommend.
>> Some of my favorite,
avocado, we named that.
Cucumber, spinach,
kale, collard greens.
Broccoli is one -- one
of the big favorites.
And, of course, I love
grapefruit and I love coconut.
>> So things like
broccoli, they don't tend
to have more of an
acidic effect?
>> Absolutely not.
Broccoli is a great source for
protein, but it's a great source
for chlorophyll as well.
And you're going
to get some acids
from any food that you eat.
It's minimizes and
on a -- on a --
on a, let's say a
debit/credit, you're going
to get more alkaline
credits then you are going
to get acidic debits.
>> Okay. Okay [laughter].
So...
>> So if you're looking at it
from an accounting
point of view.
I'm not sure why I said
it that way, but...
>> It makes sense.
It's about balance.
>> If you've ever
balanced a bank --
if you ever balanced
your bank statement...
>> Yeah.
>> ...you're looking at your
debits and you're looking
at your credits and
you want to eat foods,
like lemons and limes.
There -- there's this idea that
lemons and lime are acidic,
but you see the alkaline buffers
in the potassium bicarbonate are
greater than its acidic value;
and therefore, you're
getting more alkaline credits
than acidic debits.
>> That's how that
works [laughter].
Okay.
>> Does that make more sense?
>> Yes, it does.
>> Because, wait a
minute, I thought pH
of a lemon is like 3 to 3.5.
Yes, but when you break this
whole thing you're actually
getting more alkalinity through
the increase of mineral salts
that these lemons
and limes have.
>> Okay. That makes sense.
Now exercise, again,
it's about balance.
So what types of
exercises do you suggest?
You have a -- a slide
here that shows several
of the exercises
that you suggest.
>> Well I think the most
important thing about exercise,
you have to find something
that you really enjoy.
That you can do at least
five or six time a week.
And you should exercise at least
one hour a day where you --
and the most important part
of exercising is circulation
and through circulation that
opens up the pores of the skin,
activates the lymphatic system
to open up the pores of the skin
and remove these acidic waste
products that get pushed
from the blood into
the connective tissue.
Those need to come out.
So sweating is a very, very
important part of exercise.
>> I noticed that weight
lighting is not on here.
>> Weight lifting is
really good for tonality.
By creating a static contraction
with weights, creates blood flow
to that particular
area of the body
that you're trying to build.
When blood flows to those parts
of the body, they differentiate
into new muscle cells.
So the best way you can build
healthy strong muscles is
by having healthy strong blood.
>> Okay. And also, if you
combine weight lifting
with cardio that's
-- that's okay?
>> Absolutely.
And you can alternate,
one day cardio,
the next day lifting weights.
And I kind of combine
it all together.
>> [Laughter] Apparently
I can't see,
because weight lifting
is on that side.
>> Well yes, I encourage
weight lifting.
>> Okay.
>> I like -- I like
to teach people how
to create what is called
static contraction.
Where they're actually
creating a stress to a muscle
for about 30 seconds,
allowing the blood to flow
to that particular muscle so
the blood can differentiate
into new muscle cells.
>> And grow more blood?
Is that...
>> No not grow more blood.
>> ...no?
>> That's reverse
transformation,
but blood becomes new muscle.
It's blood that becomes
muscle, but when you're sick,
it is muscle that becomes blood.
It's called reverse
transformation.
>> Okay. You mentioned that you
have a high hemoglobin rate.
>> Yes.
>> How did you do that?
How did you grow
your hemoglobin?
>> Well you have to --
blood is made in the crypts
of the small intestine.
Secondarily, it's made in
other places of the body.
It's generally thought the blood
is made in the bone marrow.
>> Right.
>> But this is not the
case unless you're sick.
The body goes into reverse
transformation making blood
out of your own body cells.
So when you're healthy you
have to have a healthy core.
Health begins in the core.
And I usually say
in a humor sense,
this is a gut feeling
that I have.
But scientifically when we look
at the people that are sick,
you know, we do autopsies of
those, it always shows damage
to the appendages, which are the
intestinal villi, which I call,
affectionately, the
root system of our body.
When that's healthy,
everything else is healthy.
But when you're eating green
foods in a liquid state,
you can then increase stem
cell production and then
from stem cell to
the erythroblast,
from the erythroblast
to the erythrocyte,
and this is how you
build healthy blood.
You build it by eating more
green foods and green drinks.
>> I've often heard guests
say that the brain is located
in the gut and you just...
>> You have more brain cells
in your gut then you
have in your head.
Decisions that you're making
begin first in the core
and then are transmitted
to the head.
The head is not what's
making decisions.
Your brain is in your core.
Everything is -- in fact,
over 50% of your blood
circulation is in your core.
Your nervous system and
your lymphatic system is all
concentrated in the gut.
>> That is fascinating.
Thank you for validating that.
That makes a lot of sense.
So if you have a head trauma,
you should really eat
health [laughter].
>> If you have -- you
want to restore health --
and we've worked
with Alzheimer's
and different forms of dementia.
>> And memory issues?
>> Memory issues.
Autism. But the focus
point is not the brain.
The focus is the damage
that's been done to the gut.
When we restore the health
gut, then we restore the brain.
The cranial brain.
>> So now ironically
you call your system
and your protocol
COWS [laughter].
>> Yeah. You got to eat like a
cow if you want to be healthy.
>> Okay. That's what
you mean by that.
>> Yeah. COW is actually
an acronym.
>> We have a slide
here that shows this.
>> Yeah.
>> So explain this if you can.
>> Well the C stands
for chlorophyll.
As we increase more chlorophyll
or chlorophyll-rich foods
in our diet, this is when we
start building healthy blood.
When we start building
healthy blood,
we then can regenerate
a new body.
And it takes about nine months
to regenerate a new body.
The O stands for oil.
Any stem cells is
going to be made
or any embryonic cell is
going to be made in a --
in a vessel of fat or oil.
So oil becomes -- particularly
polyunsaturated oils,
which are more flexible
to make the membranes
that will then hold
the chlorophyll
that becomes the new
stem cell and then
from there the new
embryonic and blood cells.
>> Okay.
>> Water is critical, because
we are a body of water,
but alkaline water
to a pH of 9.5.
And S stands for
the mineral salts,
particularly sodium
chloride, potassium chloride.
These salts, magnesium,
and calcium are essential
to maintain the alkaline design
of the fluids of the body.
So these are my four
basic food groups.
>> So you could basically
take an avocado
and you could put some
Himalayan sea salt on it
and squeeze a lemon and
that's a perfect meal for you?
>> Absolutely.
>> That sounds really good.
>> That's breakfast.
>> That sounds really...
>> You can add some
tomato in there.
>> You could add...
>> Yeah.
>> And so your -
your system of eating
and drinking is what
you say restores.
So if you were to get stem
cell therapy or anything else
like that, it wouldn't be
as powerful as the food
that you put in your
body, right?
>> Yeah. Because
we are what we eat.
>> Yeah.
>> As you said.
>> Yeah earlier.
>> And you are what you think.
And so if you want to be healthy
you have to understand that life
and death is in the blood.
The quality of your
blood depends --
determines the quality of your
bones, your muscles, your brain,
your heart, your liver.
If your blood is not healthy,
then these other organs
and organ systems do
not function properly.
>> Can we talk about water?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Because that tends to
be a very confusing topic.
I have seen alkaline water all
the way up to 9.5 pH level.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> How do you know?
How do we know what's
the best for us?
>> Well when we understand that
our body does not digest food,
that we only have one instrument
in our body to breakdown food
or digest food and
that's our teeth.
We understand that salivary
glands are secreting alkalinity
-- in the form of sodium
bicarbonate, but the major organ
of the human body, the stomach,
is a major producer
of alkalinity.
When we think about food,
we start secreting saliva.
Our stomach starts
making sodium bicarbonate.
And, of course, the
waste product
of producing sodium bicarbonate
is hydrochloric acid.
We have this idea,
scientifically,
and it's being taught
at a very young age,
all the way through
medical school,
that our stomach digests
food and it does not.
When we understand that when
we drink alkaline water,
when we drink before our
meals, during our meals,
and after our meals
and we neutralize the
hydrochloric acid,
this is when we prevent
acid reflux.
This is when we prevent
upset stomachs.
This is when we reverse GERD
or esophageal conditions.
>> Wow!
>> We prevent stomach
cancer and bowel cancers
when we start alkalizing.
The reason why I
recommend 9.5 water
at a high-electron
concentration, which is measured
in millivolts at
negative 450 millivolts,
it's called the oxidative
reduction potential.
When we're drinking alkaline
water, which is saturated
in electrons, this is when
we neutralize what we eat,
what we drink, and
what we think.
>> Really?
>> That's why I recommend
drinking water and lots of it
that is functionally structured.
Functionally structured to be...
>> Meaning?
>> Meaning clean purified water.
Second alkaline with
a pH of 9.5,
electron-rich negative
450 millivolts,
and functionally structured
to smaller molecules,
because when water's
acid it clusters
and forms these big water
molecules and that's why
when people drink,
let's say tap water
or bottled water say I
can't drink that much water.
>> Right, right.
>> Doctor [inaudible] say
drink four to six liters.
You cannot, I agree.
You cannot drink
that much water,
but when you're drinking
functionally structured,
monomolecular water that
has smaller molecules,
then that water goes
into the tissues rather
than into your gut and then out.
>> And stays there.
>> And the body's
trying to get out.
>> So what is wetter water?
>> Well wetter water is
functionally structured water
that has a smaller
molecular structure.
So it's either one molecule
of H two O or maybe three
to five molecules, rather than
the typical structure of water
in a bottle or coming
out of the tap,
which is 20 to 40 molecules
structured together.
So you have big water molecules,
when you drink it can't
go into the tissues.
It can't go into the
cell, it's too big.
>> It's too big.
>> So it's heavy.
You want to break that up.
And so we have systems to
break the water molecules apart
so that we end up with a
functionally structured water
at a high pH, which
is energized.
We measured that, that when
you drink it, you feel better.
And the reason you're
feeling better
because you're managing
now the alkaline design
of the -- of your body.
>> It's not having to work as
hard in order to get the --
the much needed water into the
cells, it automatically goes in.
So you're saying to look for
water that has a 9.5 pH...
>> Minimum 9.5 pH.
>> ...or higher?
>> Yeah.
>> And that's not the normal
bottled water that we find
in the markets, right?
This is a specialized
type of water.
>> Well bottled water is
not functionally structured.
A lot of the bottled
water, they took it...
>> Got it.
>> ...from the -- they
take it from the tap
or they filter the water.
There are some companies
that are trying
to raise the pH chemically.
But, here again, you
want to be able to --
to create an alkaline water
by breaking the water
molecules apart and -- and I --
I own three patents on a
systems that actually does that.
>> That does that?
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And you can find out more
about that on his website.
What about coconut water?
What's the pH of coconut water?
>> Well coconut pH water
is actually identical
to your own human plasma.
>> Oh it's...
>> It has a pH of
about 7.3 to 7.4.
>> Oh it does?
>> Yeah. I remember that show.
Remember the guy that
got marooned on an island
and he was drinking
all the coconut water?
>> "Gilligan's Island"?
>> No. Well, "Gilligan's
Island" --
I was thinking of another one,
but yes coconut water is --
is actually perfectly
balanced at a 7.3 to 7.4.
You could actually use it to
replace fluid loss, you know,
through an IV if
that was necessary.
>> You're kidding?
What about the juice
from green foods?
How alkaline is green juice?
What is...
>> The green juice is going to
range, depending on what type
of appliance that you use,
if you're whipping it the
pH is going to drop down.
If you're pressing it, the
pH is going to be higher.
So the range is going to be
anywhere from about 6.4 up to
about 7.4, depending
on your appliance.
>> Okay.
>> Whether you're
pressing it or whipping it.
If you're whipping it, you're
going to get more acid.
You're going to get more
physical disturbance.
If you're pressing
it, you're going to --
you're going to keep
the juice intact
without physically
disturbing it.
>> And cold pressing it is --
actually we have
a video of this.
This is your wife
and she's making...
>> Yes.
>> ...something called
green milk.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is really,
really tasty looking.
Take a look at this
video and you'll know --
this is what pressing is, right?
>> Well she's using
a low-RPM juicer
that spins the juice very, very
slow rather than whipping it.
>> Okay.
>> Okay? And now -- she's
taking that juice, okay,
separated from all the
fiber and the stuff
that the body would eliminate
anywhere -- way, but this is -
this is the blood of the plant.
This is what you want to
drink to build your own blood.
And then she's taking the
blood of an almond, okay?
Because almonds...
>> [Inaudible].
>> ...do not digest.
However, if you chew it and
don't chew it to a liquid state,
it will come out the same
way that you swallowed it.
So you want it in
a liquid state.
She's combining that then
with the green drink,
creating what we
call green milk.
>> Okay. Take a look
at this video.
[ Music ]
>> Good morning.
Every morning at the pH
Miracle Center we serve fresh
green juice.
We also serve fresh
silky almond milk.
And we mix those two and
we call it green milk
and it is a beautiful silky
way to get your greens down.
And I'm so excited that you're
joining me this morning,
because I have found, in
my life, the first juicer
that can do both green juices
plus make nut and seed milks
without having to
strain the skins.
I know. Will wonders never
cease, right [laughter]?
I'm so excited about
this juicer.
I want to demonstrate
it for you this morning.
It's called the Power Grind Pro.
And it's a very quiet juicer.
I can even talk over the
motor [background noise].
So there it is.
It's on and you can still
hear me, which is great.
And this juicer is great because
you can put a whole cucumber in.
[ Noises ]
There we go.
You can see how quickly that
beautiful green juice comes out.
I've got a beautiful container
that keeps the juice
going in the container.
[Background noise] We're
going to add some celery.
[ Noises ]
And some spinach.
Spinach juice is very
high in chlorophyll.
It's also sweet.
[ Noises ]
And with this Power Grind --
Power Grind Pro Juicer you have
to pump the -- pump here a
little bit to get the vegetables
to go down, but it's
really very easy to use.
Add a little more celery
[background noise].
Add a little bit of pumpkin here
to get the rest of
the celery down.
So you can see here that we
have this beautiful juice ready
to drink.
And now I'm going to add almonds
that have been soaked overnight.
So they've been plumped.
I'm going to add a few in here.
In the other side of the spout.
[Background noise] I'm going
to follow up with water.
[ Noises ]
So as you see me pumping the
almonds, you can see the fresh,
silky, almond milk
starting to come out.
And all of the skins are coming
over to the side here adding
to the waste container here.
So incredible how easy this is.
Just add the almonds
that have been soaked.
Start pumping.
And chase with water.
[ Noises ]
There you have it.
Oh. That's so easy, so quick.
I've been doing this
green juice --
green milk in my
Vitamix for a long time
when I make the almond
milk and I've always had
to strain the skins out.
So you can see here we have this
beautiful, silky greens mixed
with almond milk or green
milk in perfect condition
with no waste or none of the
skins in there, ready to serve.
[Background noise] Umm.
Beautiful light green color.
[Background noise] Umm,
oh, that is so delicious.
>> Wow! That looks amazing.
So...
>> Oh it is.
>> ...very, very simple.
So talk to me about
the fiber in the juice.
Why do you not use the
fiber in the actual juice?
>> Well because the
body can't use fiber.
And -- and see digestion take
place in any place of our body,
other than where we break
it up with our teeth.
And when we eat a
lot of fibrous food,
that just creates more
congestion and potential damage
in the small intestine.
We have to think of the small
intestine as the root system
and everything that goes in
there has to be at a pH of 8.4,
has to be in a liquid state.
If we have a lot
of fibrous foods,
that's just creating more
congestion and constipation.
>> Doesn't it help elimination?
>> Well it doesn't because --
because what we eat should go
in soft serve and it
should come out soft serve.
>> Oh. Okay.
>> Okay? So I kind of give
you a little graphic there
to think about.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> We -- we don't want
to be eating solid food.
If we are eating solid food,
we need to liquefy it
before we swallow it.
>> So you don't eat any
type of breads or nuts
or those types of foods?
>> Absolutely not.
It doesn't mean that
I don't enjoy them...
>> Wow!
>> ...or couldn't enjoy them,
but I know they're constipating
because they -- the elimination
time in a lot of those foods,
particularly animal proteins
can be days and even weeks.
>> Right.
>> So no. I don't eat
any animal products.
I don't eat grains.
I eat a plant-based diet
that's focused mainly
on green foods and green drinks?
>> And then how do you
get your carbohydrates?
>> Well your body doesn't
run on carbohydrates.
It runs on electrons.
So remember the pictures
with all the energy?
I eat for life force energy.
So I feed on the sun.
I feed on foods that absorb
sun that are high chlorophyll
and that light, which is held
within the chlorophyll
molecule is then released
in our own bodies and
this is how we get energy.
>> My goodness.
No. I've never heard
of that before.
>> Yeah.
>> But now I have [laughter].
>> Now the chlorophyll molecule,
its center atom is magnesium.
It acts as an electromagnetic
[inaudible] to hold light.
See and when the sun disappears,
greens start going
yellow and brown.
The reason why is because it's
not holding onto the light.
And so the leaves fall off.
But when there is light that the
tree -- the plant can absorb,
then it stays green and...
>> What about the brain
needing carbohydrates,
the body needing
carbohydrates for fuel?
>> The body -- the body
doesn't run on carbohydrates.
It doesn't run on protein.
Doesn't run on fat.
>> There's no carbohydrates
in the cells?
>> It runs on electrical energy.
>> Are there any
carbohydrates in the cells?
>> No. The cells,
you know, they --
they talk about a Krebs cycle,
but that was based
upon fermentation.
We're talking about within that
-- that cycle, which is acrid,
is the electron transport chain.
That's where energy's derived.
Not in ATP, but in
that electron.
This is where life force is.
We are electrical beings having
a physical experience not
physical beings having
electrical experience.
So we eat for energy, not for
calories, not for protein,
not for fats, and
surely not carbohydrates.
In fact, carbohydrates are
high in sugars generally,
complex carbohydrates, and sugar
is a metabolic waste product
that makes us sick.
So our bodies don't
even run on sugar.
>> Right. Well that
is quick burning.
Well you have a fascinating
perspective
and you obviously have
an incredible system here
and we have a picture of your
beautiful ranch where you live.
You have an avocado farm there.
How many acres?
>> Well we have 40 acres.
Out of that 40 acres, 30 of
the acres we grow avocado.
The other 10 we grow all kinds
of other types of fruit plants,
like grapefruits and
persimmon and pomegranate,
but we also have a
beautiful green orchard
where we grow broccoli and
spinach and celery and cucumbers
and green peppers and...
>> So you grow all your own...
>> ...we sprout.
We grow our -- we eat we
grow and we grow what we eat.
>> So right here in California?
>> Right here in
sunny California.
>> [Laughter] Thank you
so much for joining me.
Fascinating interview.
I appreciate your time.
>> Well thank you for
having me on your show.
>> Great -- great foods too.
Really good foods.
>> Yeah.
>> If you want to watch
a replay of my interview
with Dr. Robert Young or share
with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]